Hi. I think Minecraft may have recently
made one of the worst changes in the
history of the game, and I haven't seen
a single person talk about it. For as
long as I can remember, my super flat
survival world has been pretty peaceful
at night. But then recently, I upgraded
my world to version 1.21.7. At first,
nothing seemed that different. Some
minor tweaks to the fog, but not much
else. But then, when I forgot to sleep
for a few nights, it happened.
Ever since they were added to the game,
phantoms only ever spawned when the
player was above Y 64. And since my
super flat world's bedrock layer is at Y
level zero, it was honestly pretty rare
that I ever went high enough for
phantoms to spawn. But apparently in
1.21.5, with almost nobody noticing,
Mojang quietly changed the phantom
spawning requirements to only need a
direct line of sight to the sky. In
other words, the player's Y level no
longer matters. So, for the first time
in 13 years, my world has been
completely overrun with phantoms, and
it's a nightmare. I finally see why
everyone is constantly complaining about
these things. And it's not just a super
flat problem, either. If you're in a
cave with any sky access, they can get
you there, too. I thought maybe bringing
a cat everywhere with me would help, but
the truth is that the most annoying
thing about them isn't them swooping
down to attack. It's the terrible
banshee shrieks they make all night
long. I'm not sure why this was even
changed, but I hope they change it back
because I don't know about you, but I
only want to see phantoms when